docs/source/getting-started.rst, before:

.. _getting-started:

Getting Started
===============

Installation
************

Prerequisites
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Python 3+ (Tested on 3.6.5)
- Docker
- Supports MacOS, Linux, and Windows

Install via Pip
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Run the following command to install the latest version of Surround::
    
    $ pip3 install surround

.. note:: If this doesn't work make sure you have pip installed. See `here <https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing/>`_ on how to install it.

Now the Surround library and command-line tool should be installed! To make sure run the following command to test::

    $ surround

If it works then you are ready for the :ref:`project-setup` stage.

Install via Source
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
If for some reason the above isn't working for you, or you plan to extend Surround, then you can install via the source.
So first clone the repository like so::

    $ git clone https://github.com/a2i2/surround.git
    $ cd surround

Then install the package using the ``setup.py`` script::

    $ python3 setup.py install

.. note:: This step requires the module ``setuptools`` to be installed. See `here <https://pypi.org/project/setuptools/>`_ on how to install it.

Then test the installation by running the tests and trying the surround CLI::

    $ python3 setup.py test
    $ surround

.. _project-setup:

Project Setup
*************

Before we can create our first pipeline, we need to generate an empty Surround project. 
Use the following command to generate a new project::

    $ surround init -p testproject -d "Our first pipeline"

When it asks the following, respond with ``n`` (we'll cover this in later sections)::
    
    Does it require a web runner? (y/n) n

This will create a new folder called ``testproject`` with the following file structure::

    testproject
    ├── testproject/
    │   ├── __main__.py
    │   ├── __init__.py    
    │   ├── config.yaml
    │   ├── batch_runner.py
    │   └── stages.py
    ├── data/
    ├── docs/
    ├── models/
    ├── notebooks/
    ├── output/
    ├── scripts/
    ├── spikes/
    ├── tests/
    ├── __main__.py
    ├── __init__.py    
    ├── dodo.py
    ├── Dockerfile
    ├── requirements.txt
    └── README.md

The generated project comes with an example pipeline that can be ran straight away using the command::

    $ cd testproject
    $ python3 -m testproject

Which should output the following::

    INFO:surround.assembler:Starting 'Default project'
    INFO:surround.assembler:Estimator Main took 0:00:00 secs
    INFO:root:Batch Runner: TODO: Load raw data here

Now you are ready for :ref:`create-first-pipeline`. 

.. seealso:: Not sure what a pipeline is? Checkout our :ref:`about` section first!

.. _create-first-pipeline:

Creating your first pipeline
****************************

For our first Surround pipeline, we are going to do some very basic data transformation and convert the input string
from lower case to upper case. This pipeline is going to consist of two stages, ``ValidateData`` and ``MakeUpperCase``.

Open the script ``stages.py`` and you should see the following code already generated::

    from surround import Estimator, SurroundData, Validator

    class TestprojectData(SurroundData):
        input_data = None
        output_data = None

    class ValidateData(Validator):
        def validate(self, surround_data, config):
            if not surround_data.input_data:
                raise ValueError("'input_data' is None")

    class Main(Estimator):
        def estimate(self, surround_data, config):
            surround_data.output_data = surround_data.input_data

        def fit(self, surround_data, config):
            print("TODO: Train your model here")

As you can see we are already given the ``ValidateData`` stage, we just need to edit the ``operate`` method to
check if the input data is the correct data type (:class:`str`)::

    def validate(self, surround_data, config):
        if not isinstance(surround_data.input_data, str):
            # Create an error sine the data is wrong, this will stop the pipeline
            surround_data.errors.append('Input is not a string!')

Now we need to rename ``Main`` to ``MakeUpperCase`` and perform the data transformation in ``estimate``::

    class MakeUpperCase(Estimator):
        def estimate(self, surround_data, config):
            # Convert the input into upper case
            surround_data.output_data = surround_data.input_data.upper()
        
        def fit(self, surround_data, config):
            # Leave the fit method the same 
            # We aren't doing any training in this guide
            print("TODO: Train your model here")

Since we renamed the estimator, we need to reflect that change when we create the ``Assembler``.
So in ``__main__.py`` where the estimator is imported make sure it looks like so::

    from stages import MakeUpperCase, ValidateData

And where the assembler is created, make sure it looks like so::

    assembler = Assembler("Default project", ValidateData(), MakeUpperCase())

That's it for the pipeline! 
To test the pipeline with default input (``"TODO Load raw data here"`` string) just run the following command::

    $ python3 -m testproject

The output should be the following::

    INFO:surround.assembler:Starting 'Default project'
    INFO:surround.assembler:Estimator MakeUpperCase took 0:00:00 secs
    INFO:root:Batch Runner: TODO: LOAD RAW DATA HERE

To change what input is fed through the pipeline, modify ``batch_runner.py`` and change what is given to ``data.input_data``::

    import logging
    from surround import Runner
    from stages import TestprojectData

    logging.basicConfig(level=logging.INFO)

    class BatchRunner(Runner):
        def run(self, is_training=False):
            self.assembler.init_assembler(True)
            data = TestprojectData()

            # Load data to be processed
            raw_data = "This daTa wiLL end UP captializED"

            # Setup input data
            data.input_data = raw_data

            # Run assembler
            self.assembler.run(data, is_training)

            logging.info("Batch Runner: %s", data.output_data)


.. note:: To test training mode (``fit`` will be called instead in the estimator), run the following command: 
            ``$ python3 -m testproject --mode train``

Running your first pipeline in a container
******************************************

First you must build an image for your container. To do this just run the following command::

    $ surround run build

Then to run the container in dev mode just use the following command::

    $ surround run dev

This will run the container linking the folder ``testproject/testproject`` with the working directory in the
container. So during development when you make small changes, there is no need to build the image, just run
this command again.

Then when you are ready for production you can use the following command::

    $ surround run prod

Which will first build the image and then run the container without any linking to the host machine.
The image created in the build can also then be committed to a Docker Hub repository and shared.

.. note:: Both ``dev`` and ``prod`` will use the command ``$ python3 -m testproject`` inside the container.
        Meaning they will use the default mode set in ``__main__.py`` (which is ``batch`` in default projects) 
        when running the pipeline.

The following commands will force which mode to use::

    $ surround run batch
    $ surround run train

Serving your first pipeline via Web Endpoint
********************************************

When generating a project, you get asked::
    
    Does it require a web runner? (y/n)
    
If we say yes to this then Surround will generate a generic ``batch_runner.py`` but it will also
generate a new script called ``web_runner.py``. 

This script contains a new ``Runner`` which will use `Tornado <https://www.tornadoweb.org/en/stable/>`_
to host a web server which will allow your pipeline to be accessible via HTTP request. By default the 
``WebRunner`` will host two endpoints:

- ``/info`` - access via GET request, will return ``{'version': '0.0.1'}``
- ``/estimate`` - access via POST request, body must have a JSON document containing input data::

    {
        "message": "this text will be processed" 
    }

So lets create a new pipeline that does the same data processing as the one in :ref:`create-first-pipeline` but
we will send strings via web endpoint and get the results in the response of the request.

First generate a new project, this time saying yes to the require web prompt, and make all the changes we did in
:ref:`create-first-pipeline` and test it is still working locally.

Next we are going to build an image for our pipeline using the command::

    $ surround run build

Then we are going to run our default server using the command::

    $ surround run web

You should get output like so::

    INFO:root:Server started at http://localhost:8080

.. note:: If you would like to run it on the host machine instead of in a container, you must install Tornado using
        this command: ``$ pip3 install tornado==6.0.2``

Now hopefully if you load ``http://localhost:8080/info`` in your preferred browser, you should see the following::

    {"version": "0.0.1"}

.. note:: If you are running this on Windows and don't see the above, try using ``http://192.168.99.100:8080/info`` instead.

Next we are going to test the ``/estimate`` endpoint by using the following command in another terminal::

    $ curl -d "{ \"message\": \"test phrase\" }" http://localhost:8080/estimate

You should see the following output in the terminal running the pipeline::

    INFO:surround.assembler:Starting 'Default project'
    INFO:surround.assembler:Estimator MakeUpperCase took 0:00:00 secs
    INFO:root:Message: TEST PHRASE
    INFO:tornado.access:200 POST /estimate (::1) 1.95ms

So our data is successfully being processed! But what if we need the result?

Head to the script ``web_runner.py`` and append the following to the ``post`` method of ``EstimateHandler``::

    # Return the result of the processing
    self.write({"output": self.data.output_data})

Restart the web server, use the same ``curl`` command and you should see the following output::

    % Total    % Received % Xferd  Average Speed   Time    Time     Time  Current
                                    Dload  Upload   Total   Spent    Left  Speed
    100    53  100    25  100    28    806    903 --:--:-- --:--:-- --:--:--  1709
    {"output": "TEST PHRASE"}

Thats it, you are now serving a Surround pipeline! Now you could potentially use this pipeline in virtually any
application.

.. note:: Since this project was generated with a web runner, the default mode is ``web``, to run the pipeline
        using the ``BatchRunner`` instead, use the command ``$ surround run batch`` or ``$ surround run train``.

Commit message:

DOC: Add Windows alternative to cURL in getting started guide

docs/source/getting-started.rst, after:

.. _getting-started:

Getting Started
===============

Installation
************

Prerequisites
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Python 3+ (Tested on 3.6.5)
- Docker
- Supports MacOS, Linux, and Windows

Install via Pip
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Run the following command to install the latest version of Surround::
    
    $ pip3 install surround

.. note:: If this doesn't work make sure you have pip installed. See `here <https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/installing/>`_ on how to install it.

Now the Surround library and command-line tool should be installed! To make sure run the following command to test::

    $ surround

If it works then you are ready for the :ref:`project-setup` stage.

Install via Source
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
If for some reason the above isn't working for you, or you plan to extend Surround, then you can install via the source.
So first clone the repository like so::

    $ git clone https://github.com/a2i2/surround.git
    $ cd surround

Then install the package using the ``setup.py`` script::

    $ python3 setup.py install

.. note:: This step requires the module ``setuptools`` to be installed. See `here <https://pypi.org/project/setuptools/>`_ on how to install it.

Then test the installation by running the tests and trying the surround CLI::

    $ python3 setup.py test
    $ surround

.. _project-setup:

Project Setup
*************

Before we can create our first pipeline, we need to generate an empty Surround project. 
Use the following command to generate a new project::

    $ surround init -p testproject -d "Our first pipeline"

When it asks the following, respond with ``n`` (we'll cover this in later sections)::
    
    Does it require a web runner? (y/n) n

This will create a new folder called ``testproject`` with the following file structure::

    testproject
    ├── testproject/
    │   ├── __main__.py
    │   ├── __init__.py    
    │   ├── config.yaml
    │   ├── batch_runner.py
    │   └── stages.py
    ├── data/
    ├── docs/
    ├── models/
    ├── notebooks/
    ├── output/
    ├── scripts/
    ├── spikes/
    ├── tests/
    ├── __main__.py
    ├── __init__.py    
    ├── dodo.py
    ├── Dockerfile
    ├── requirements.txt
    └── README.md

The generated project comes with an example pipeline that can be ran straight away using the command::

    $ cd testproject
    $ python3 -m testproject

Which should output the following::

    INFO:surround.assembler:Starting 'Default project'
    INFO:surround.assembler:Estimator Main took 0:00:00 secs
    INFO:root:Batch Runner: TODO: Load raw data here

Now you are ready for :ref:`create-first-pipeline`. 

.. seealso:: Not sure what a pipeline is? Checkout our :ref:`about` section first!

.. _create-first-pipeline:

Creating your first pipeline
****************************

For our first Surround pipeline, we are going to do some very basic data transformation and convert the input string
from lower case to upper case. This pipeline is going to consist of two stages, ``ValidateData`` and ``MakeUpperCase``.

Open the script ``stages.py`` and you should see the following code already generated::

    from surround import Estimator, SurroundData, Validator

    class TestprojectData(SurroundData):
        input_data = None
        output_data = None

    class ValidateData(Validator):
        def validate(self, surround_data, config):
            if not surround_data.input_data:
                raise ValueError("'input_data' is None")

    class Main(Estimator):
        def estimate(self, surround_data, config):
            surround_data.output_data = surround_data.input_data

        def fit(self, surround_data, config):
            print("TODO: Train your model here")

As you can see we are already given the ``ValidateData`` stage, we just need to edit the ``operate`` method to
check if the input data is the correct data type (:class:`str`)::

    def validate(self, surround_data, config):
        if not isinstance(surround_data.input_data, str):
            # Create an error sine the data is wrong, this will stop the pipeline
            surround_data.errors.append('Input is not a string!')

Now we need to rename ``Main`` to ``MakeUpperCase`` and perform the data transformation in ``estimate``::

    class MakeUpperCase(Estimator):
        def estimate(self, surround_data, config):
            # Convert the input into upper case
            surround_data.output_data = surround_data.input_data.upper()
        
        def fit(self, surround_data, config):
            # Leave the fit method the same 
            # We aren't doing any training in this guide
            print("TODO: Train your model here")

Since we renamed the estimator, we need to reflect that change when we create the ``Assembler``.
So in ``__main__.py`` where the estimator is imported make sure it looks like so::

    from stages import MakeUpperCase, ValidateData

And where the assembler is created, make sure it looks like so::

    assembler = Assembler("Default project", ValidateData(), MakeUpperCase())

That's it for the pipeline! 
To test the pipeline with default input (``"TODO Load raw data here"`` string) just run the following command::

    $ python3 -m testproject

The output should be the following::

    INFO:surround.assembler:Starting 'Default project'
    INFO:surround.assembler:Estimator MakeUpperCase took 0:00:00 secs
    INFO:root:Batch Runner: TODO: LOAD RAW DATA HERE

To change what input is fed through the pipeline, modify ``batch_runner.py`` and change what is given to ``data.input_data``::

    import logging
    from surround import Runner
    from stages import TestprojectData

    logging.basicConfig(level=logging.INFO)

    class BatchRunner(Runner):
        def run(self, is_training=False):
            self.assembler.init_assembler(True)
            data = TestprojectData()

            # Load data to be processed
            raw_data = "This daTa wiLL end UP captializED"

            # Setup input data
            data.input_data = raw_data

            # Run assembler
            self.assembler.run(data, is_training)

            logging.info("Batch Runner: %s", data.output_data)


.. note:: To test training mode (``fit`` will be called instead in the estimator), run the following command: 
            ``$ python3 -m testproject --mode train``

Running your first pipeline in a container
******************************************

First you must build an image for your container. To do this just run the following command::

    $ surround run build

Then to run the container in dev mode just use the following command::

    $ surround run dev

This will run the container linking the folder ``testproject/testproject`` with the working directory in the
container. So during development when you make small changes, there is no need to build the image, just run
this command again.

Then when you are ready for production you can use the following command::

    $ surround run prod

Which will first build the image and then run the container without any linking to the host machine.
The image created in the build can also then be committed to a Docker Hub repository and shared.

.. note:: Both ``dev`` and ``prod`` will use the command ``$ python3 -m testproject`` inside the container.
        Meaning they will use the default mode set in ``__main__.py`` (which is ``batch`` in default projects) 
        when running the pipeline.

The following commands will force which mode to use::

    $ surround run batch
    $ surround run train

Serving your first pipeline via Web Endpoint
********************************************

When generating a project, you get asked::
    
    Does it require a web runner? (y/n)
    
If we say yes to this then Surround will generate a generic ``batch_runner.py`` but it will also
generate a new script called ``web_runner.py``. 

This script contains a new ``Runner`` which will use `Tornado <https://www.tornadoweb.org/en/stable/>`_
to host a web server which will allow your pipeline to be accessible via HTTP request. By default the 
``WebRunner`` will host two endpoints:

- ``/info`` - access via GET request, will return ``{'version': '0.0.1'}``
- ``/estimate`` - access via POST request, body must have a JSON document containing input data::

    {
        "message": "this text will be processed" 
    }

So lets create a new pipeline that does the same data processing as the one in :ref:`create-first-pipeline` but
we will send strings via web endpoint and get the results in the response of the request.

First generate a new project, this time saying yes to the require web prompt, and make all the changes we did in
:ref:`create-first-pipeline` and test it is still working locally.

Next we are going to build an image for our pipeline using the command::

    $ surround run build

Then we are going to run our default server using the command::

    $ surround run web

You should get output like so::

    INFO:root:Server started at http://localhost:8080

.. note:: If you would like to run it on the host machine instead of in a container, you must install Tornado using
        this command: ``$ pip3 install tornado==6.0.2``

Now hopefully if you load ``http://localhost:8080/info`` in your preferred browser, you should see the following::

    {"version": "0.0.1"}

.. note:: If you are running this on Windows and don't see the above, try using ``http://192.168.99.100:8080/info`` instead.

Next we are going to test the ``/estimate`` endpoint by using the following command in another terminal:

On Linux/MacOS::

    $ curl -d "{ \"message\": \"test phrase\" }" http://localhost:8080/estimate

On Windows (in Powershell)::

    $ Invoke-WebRequest http://192.168.99.100:8080/estimate -Method POST -Body "{ ""message"": ""test phrase"" }"

You should see the following output in the terminal running the pipeline::

    INFO:surround.assembler:Starting 'Default project'
    INFO:surround.assembler:Estimator MakeUpperCase took 0:00:00 secs
    INFO:root:Message: TEST PHRASE
    INFO:tornado.access:200 POST /estimate (::1) 1.95ms

So our data is successfully being processed! But what if we need the result?

Head to the script ``web_runner.py`` and append the following to the ``post`` method of ``EstimateHandler``::

    # Return the result of the processing
    self.write({"output": self.data.output_data})

Restart the web server, use the same command as before and you should see the following output:

On Linux/MacOS::

    % Total    % Received % Xferd  Average Speed   Time    Time     Time  Current
                                    Dload  Upload   Total   Spent    Left  Speed
    100    53  100    25  100    28    806    903 --:--:-- --:--:-- --:--:--  1709
    {"output": "TEST PHRASE"}

On Windows (in Powershell)::

    StatusCode        : 200
    StatusDescription : OK
    Content           : {"output": "TEST PHRASE"}
    RawContent        : HTTP/1.1 200 OK
                        Content-Length: 25
                        Content-Type: application/json; charset=UTF-8
                        Date: Mon, 17 Jun 2019 06:43:54 GMT
                        Server: TornadoServer/6.0.2

                        {"output": "TEST PHRASE"}
    Forms             : {}
    Headers           : {[Content-Length, 25], [Content-Type, application/json; charset=UTF-8], [Date, Mon, 17 Jun 2019 06:43:54 GMT], [Server, TornadoServer/6.0.2]}
    Images            : {}
    InputFields       : {}
    Links             : {}
    ParsedHtml        : mshtml.HTMLDocumentClass
    RawContentLength  : 25

Thats it, you are now serving a Surround pipeline! Now you could potentially use this pipeline in virtually any
application.

.. note:: Since this project was generated with a web runner, the default mode is ``web``, to run the pipeline
        using the ``BatchRunner`` instead, use the command ``$ surround run batch`` or ``$ surround run train``.
